.TH checkbrack 1 "2008\-02\-06" "hxtools" "hxtools"
.SH Name
.PP
checkbrack - check parenthesis and bracket count
.SH Syntax
.PP
\fBcheckbrack\fP [\fB\-p\fP] \fIfile\fP...
.SH Description
.PP
Displays each line of the file(s), together with their open bracket count
that is reached at the end of line. Particularly, it allows you to find missing
closing brackets. This is especially helpful because the Perl interpreter for
example has problems telling you where exactly something went wrong.
.SH Options
.PP
.TP
\fB\-p\fP
Enable Perl/PHP mode, that is, do not consider presence $(, $), $[ and $] of a
bracket imbalance.
.SH Example
.PP
.nf
$ checkbrack /usr/lib/hxtools/bin/checkbrack | less -S
#   () [] {}
13  0  0  1 foreach my $file (@ARGV) {
14  0  0  1     if (!-f $file) { next; }
15  0  0  1     print "Displaying $file...\n";
16  0  0  2     if (!open(IN, "< $file")) {
17  0  0  2         print "Error opening $file: $!\n";
18  0  0  2         next;
19  0  0  1     }
.fi
.PP
The numbers at the front are: line number, number of unclosed left parentheses,
number of unclosed left square brackets and number of unclosed left square
braces.
.PP
At the end of line 19, we would need to close one more brace to make it
syntactically valid code.
.PP
The interesting thing of this, that if GCC, Perl or whatever outputs an error
and you do not figure out what it means - that is often the case with missing
braces - run checkbrack on the source file, skip to the end, and watch the
brace counts.
.PP
Scroll up until the brace counts seem normal (i.e. 0 open braces) at outside
any function.
