.TH octl 1 "2008-02-06" "hxtools" "hxtools"
.SH Name
.PP
octl \(em raw PCM playback/record and volume control using the OSS API
.SH Syntax
.PP
\fBoplay\fP, \fBorec\fP [\fB\-MQqvw\fP] [\fB\-B\fP \fIbytes\fP] [\fB\-K\fP
\fIpos\fP] [\fB\-T\fP \fIbytes\fP] [\fB\-V\fP \fIlevel\fP]
[\fB\-b\fP \fIbits\fP] [\fB\-c\fP \fIchannels\fP] [\fB\-d\fP \fIfile\fP]
[\fB\-f\fP \fIbytes\fP] [\fB\-k\fP \fIpos\fP] [\fB\-s\fP \fIbytes\fP]
[\fB\-t\fP \fIseconds\fP]
.PP
\fBorec\fP has the same syntax.
.PP
\fBomixer\fP [\fIdevice\fP] [\fIcontrol\fP
[\fIvolume\fP|\fIleftvol\fP\fB:\fP\fIrightvol\fP]]
.SH Description
.PP
octl allows you to do simple raw PCM playback and recording via the OSS API.
Volume can also be set.
.SH Options (oplay, orec)
.TP
\fB\-B\fP \fIbytes\fP
Sets the block size (bytes to r/w at once).
.TP
\fB\-K\fP \fIpos\fP
Jump to byte position.
.TP
\fB\-M\fP
Sets the mono flag; equivalent to specifying \-c1.
.TP
\fB\-Q\fP
Sets 4-channel output; equivalent to \-c4.
.TP
\fB\-T\fP \fIbytes\fP
Maximum amount of bytes to record/play.
.TP
\fB\-V\fP \fIlevel\fP
Set verbosity level (default: 3). Valid levels are 0\(en4.
.TP
\fB\-b\fP \fIbits\fP
Sets the sample size (8/16 bit) (default: 16).
.TP
\fB\-c\fP \fIchannels\fP
Sets the number of channels (default: 2).
.TP
\fB\-d\fP \fIdevice\fP
Uses this DSP device (default: /dev/dsp). Multiple \-d options can be specified
to copy output to multiple soundcards (oplay only).
.TP
\fB\-f\fP \fIbytes\fP
Sets the fragment size. (This is an OSS internal.)
.TP
\fB\-k\fP [\fIminutes\fP\fB:\fP]\fIseconds\fP
Jump to position (minutes:seconds or seconds from the start).
.TP
\fB\-q\fP
Lower verbosity level
.TP
\fB\-s\fP \fIrate\fP
Set the samplerate (default: 44100).
.TP
\fB\-t\fP [\fIminutes\fP\fB:\fP]\fIseconds\fP
Maximum amount of time to record/play.
.TP
\fB\-v\fP
Increase verbosity level.
.PP
If no \-K/\-k option is specified, orec will truncate the output file during
open.
.SH Options (omixer)
.TP
\fIdevice\fP
A mixer specification. The first character must either be a colon (:) or an
equals sign (=) to make omixer recognize it as a device. If the prefix is a
colon, it will be replaced by "/dev/mixer", making "\fB:1\fP" equal to "\fB/dev/mixer1\fP"
and "\fB:\fP" is "\fB/dev/mixer\fP" itself. An equals sign instead indicates that the path
is complete, i.e. "\fB=/devices/audio/mixer1\fP" will use that specific device
(\fB/devices/audio/mixer1\fP).
.TP
\fIcontrol\fP
Control to examine. The available controls can be printed leaving this
parameter empty. The recording source can be queried using "\fB?r\fP" as
control. (De)selecting the recording source is done using "+r" / "\-r".
.TP
\fIvolume\fP
The volume level (0-100) to set the control to. If a number is specified, both
channels will be set to the given level. "\fIleftvol\fP\fB:\fP\fIrightvol\fP"
can be used to specify each channel's level.
.SH oplay verbosity levels
.TP
0
no output at all
.TP
1
just print the filename
.TP
2
filename + a dot for each block that was written to the DSP device
.TP
3 (default)
filename + time position
.TP
4
filename + time position + byte position
.SH Examples
.PP
omixer definitely warrants examples.
.TP
Show all controls:
omixer
.TP
Show all controls of /dev/mixer1:
omixer =/dev/mixer1
.br
(or) omixer :1
.TP
Show PCM control of mixer0:
omixer pcm
.TP
Set PCM to 50% left, 70% right:
omixer pcm 50:70
.TP
Set PCM on /dev/mixer2 to 50% both
omixer :2 pcm 50
.SH Notes
oplay \-Q/\-c4 might yield weird results if the underlying device does not
support it.
